# GEOG176A
This project was completed as the final for GEOG176A Introduction to Geographic Information Systems and Science.\
\
For this project my partner, Brianna Lee, and I were interested in investigating if there is a spatial relationship between household economic characteristics and proximity to power plants in the city of Los Angeles.  We were interested to see if people who live closer to power plants are characterized by lower median household income and higher unemployment, while people further from power plants have higher income and lower unemployment.  This problem is important because it investigates if those who are economically vulnerable are dealt with the injustice of living near power plants.  Power plants are not ideal to live near due to their production of pollution, dreary appearance, and many other reasons.  Considering these factors, we wanted to observe if lower income communities are situated near power plants due to a lack of opportunity and choice.  To discover if a relationship exists between proximity to power plants and economic characteristics, we obtained information on household income traits, including median income and unemployment rates at the Census tract level, in addition to locational information on power plants in Los Angeles.  After mapping this information we conducted proximity analysis by measuring the number of tracts characterized by each income level/unemployment rate within one mile of power plants.  We also calculated the distance between each tract and the nearest power plant.  These distances and the unemployment and income values of each tract were used to create scatter plots describing the relationship between the distance to power plants and economic characteristics.
